Hello and welcome to this very very important tutorial because this is Hoyo I'm going to tell you which
are the best sources.
You must have every time with you when you are taking this course and there are actually three resources.
The first one is this cheat sheet of the world Noro with all the different steps of the process starting
from the input from the very beginning up to the selection of the action to play in the environment
and the other two resources for you to have all the time.
Are these two websites which are first the world models that get have that Io which is the original
article which is nothing else than the article made by the original authors of the world models who
are first.
David ha from Google brain in Tokyo Japan and Jorgan Schmidt who were from the Swiss company and a sense
which was I think founded by the inventor of the LACMA So two big talents of the AI community.
DAVID And Julian Schmidt who were and I recommend to check them out on the Internet.
They also have fascinating articles and research papers written for AI research.
But the reason why you should have this always with you and which is the same reason why we should be
so grateful for them.
So thank you so much to both David and Joergen Schmidt who were the reasons are that not only they created
an insanely powerful model which is a world model but also they wrote a super clear crystal clear article
on this model which basically explains everything not only the intuition you know in the first paragraph
with this introduction you will get the intuition of the world model with the fact that the reality
we perceive is based on our brains.
Prediction of the future and therefore we all have a different perception of the reality.
So all the intuition is explained here.
Also with this baseball example you know a baseball batter doesn't have time to see the ball coming
to him and to see where he should hit the ball.
But the reason why the better managed to hit the ball is only because his brain predicts exactly where
the ball is going to make contact.
And so that's the intrusion but of course then you'll have the full theory explained quite in great
detail in my opinion because it covers the different parts of the world model including the variational
are in color as we can see here the the model with the different components of the variational are in
color including the encoder which produces the latent vectors Z and then the decoder which recreate
the frame from the latent vectors that and not only they explained this with nice graphics but also
they provide some sort of demo you know interactive demo where you have a random screenshot as input
and the options to randomize it and you get the reconstruction image.
So you know it's not all the time that we get all these well-explained informations for any know.
You know usually only get the research paper but the research paper is usually very advanced you know
addressed to the other experts in the community.
But here when I see this really I have the feeling that it was addressed to everybody which is our value
here as instructors who want to spread the knowledge in the world and democratize artificial intelligence.
So a big thank you for that.
And then of course they cover the end on Arnold morrow and they clearly explain that the role of the
end and which is I remind the mixture density network that is here the role of the MGM is just too narrow
the probability distribution of the latent vectors that at time T plus one with respect to the action
the latent vector and the hidden state at the current time.
So no worries if you don't understand what all this means.
We will explain everything in different steps of course but you'll see with our course.
Plus this article you won't be able to miss any detail so that's why I have to insist.
Make sure to have it open with you when you take the course.
This link world models that get have that IO You just have to type world Norell on Google and this will
definitely be either the first or second link.
All right.
So endian RNA and then of course they explain the controller and they clearly say that the controller
is nothing else than a simple are linear model that maps Zanti to late and vector and H.T. the hidden
state from the Arnon directly to the action.
So basically the action that is played and each time is just the result of this mapping from the controller
which is a simple single layer linear model taking as input to concatenated input vectors that THG Plus
this bias.
All right.
And therefore you have to understand that WC Here is a matrix you know a linear matrix withinside some
weight weights and the goal the next step in the process is to leverage deep neuro evolution because
what deep neuro evolution will do is it will find the best parameters of this weight matrix meaning
the best weight of the weight matrix so that the best actions are played and so that the reward is maximized
as they can see here you know the gold ultimate goal in order to make the car drive as fast as possible
is to maximize the expected cumulative reward of the agent during a rollout of the environment meaning
during a certain number of steps like what I showed you in the British Statoil 900 steps.
All right so the optimizer that will use in the end is to turn the course structure will be exactly
used to figure out the best way out of this weight matrix of the controller.
And that's when the second thing comes into play here is Noriko by the blog Ohtori dot net.
And they made an amazing guide on evolution strategies.
So you absolutely need to read it fully.
We will of course cover it and step 10 but you absolutely need to read this because again the explanations
are amazing.
There are nice graphics that illustrate everything with not only graphics but as you can see some diagrams
and they cover all the evolution strategies techniques from the simple evolution strategy including
also the simple genetic algorithm then the covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy.
Or C A S which is the one we'll use to optimize our full world model and then also they cover the natural
evolution strategies and I think also the open AI evolution strategy which is also a great one and it
will be provided in the master toolkit.
All right so you must read this as many times as you can.
And so what you need to understand is that this will come into play to optimize the weight of the matrix
of the controller.
And this technique to optimize the weight of MRO to you know play the best actions that will lead to
the highest rewards is called exactly policy gradient.
It's a branch of artificial intelligence as opposed to the other competitive branch which is deep reinforcement
learning.
Well the difference between the two is that there is a gradient.
We'll use some techniques like evolution strategies to figure out the best parameters of a model.
So here Paul is great and we'll figure out the best weight of the control model and then differently
separately have the deep reinforcement learning branch which will use the learning algorithm to figure
out the best actions to play in order to maximize the reward.
But this is absolutely not what we do here.
Here we do policy gradient meaning we're optimizing the weight or the parameters of MRO here to control
them all.
So we won't do any Q learning or we will work within a few values here for the full world model what
we're doing here to optimize the weight of the controller is by leveraging quality gradient.
And of course the state of the art Noro in the policy graden branch of AI which is evolution strategies
and more specifically the covariance matrix application evolution strategy.
So I hope you are now convinced that you should always have it opened with you all of course remember
well knows that you have the IO and Blug later that night and then you can just visually volution strategies
with Otar will you cannot miss it but will also give it to you in the course so that we make sure you
don't miss it.
All right.
And just finished a tutorial I would like to point out the fact that indeed the authors explain that
they optimized the parameters of the Control-C with the covariance matrix adaptation evolutions Reggie
CMAG as which we will implement in the course.
So I can't wait to start all these steps.
This was the last tutorial of this introductory section.
Now it's time to begin our journey with the first step covering artificial neural networks if you already
know our visual neural networks then you can move on to the next step.
Convolutional neural networks.
And if you already know them you can move on to the step after that.
Variational are encouraged.
You have to understand that this course was made for everyone so that everyone can tackle the full world
model.
And that's why we provided everything from scratch with a step by step structure.
So please make sure to navigate your own way depending on what you already know.
And on that note I will also give you the cheat sheet with the full structure so that you can clearly
have it in your mind.
Until then enjoy artificial intelligence.